.TH MAKE_SMBCODEPAGE 1 "13 Jun 1998" "make_smbcodepage 1.9.18p8"
.SH NAME
make_smbcodepage \- create a binary codepage definition file from an ascii codepage definition source file, or reverse the process.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B make_smbcodepage
.I c|d
.I codepage
.I inputfile
.I outputfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is part of the Samba suite.

.B make_smbcodepage
compiles or de-compiles codepage files for use with the internationalization
features of Samba 1.9.18.

An ascii Samba codepage definition file is a description that tells Samba
how to map from upper to lower case for characters greater than ascii 127
in the specified DOS code page.  Note that for certain DOS codepages 
(437 for example) mapping from lower to upper case may be asynchronous. 
For example, in code page 437 lower case a acute maps to a plain upper 
case A when going from lower to upper case, but maps from plain upper 
case A to plain lower case a when lower casing a character.

A binary Samba codepage definition file is a binary representation
of the same information, including a value that specifies what codepage
this file is describing.

As Samba does not yet use UNICODE (current for Samba version 1.9.18)
you must specify the client code page that your DOS and Windows clients
are using if you wish to have case insensitivity done correctly for
your particular language. The default codepage Samba uses is 850
(Western European). Ascii codepage definition sample files are provided
in the Samba distribution for codepages 437 (USA), 850 (Western European)
852 (MS-DOS Latin 2) and 932 (Kanji SJIS). Users are encouraged to
write ascii codepage definition files for their own code pages and
donate them to samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au. All codepage files in the
Samba source directory are compiled and installed when a 'make install'
command is issued there.

An ascii codepage definition file consists of multiple lines containing
four fields. These fields are :
.B lower
which is the (hex) lower case character mapped on this line.
.B upper
which is the (hex) upper case character that the lower case character
will map to.
.B map upper to lower
which is a boolean value (put either True or False here) which tells
Samba if it is to map the given upper case character to the given
lower case character when lower casing a filename.
.B map lower to upper
which is a boolean value (put either True or False here) which tells
Samba if it is to map the given lower case character to the given
upper case character when upper casing a filename.

.SH OPTIONS
.I c|d

.RS 3
This tells make_smbcodepage if it is compiling (c) an ascii code page file
to binary, or de-compiling a binary codepage file to ascii.
.RE

.I codepage

.RS 3
This is the codepage we are processing (a number, eg. 850)
.RE

.I inputfile

.RS 3
This is the input file to process.
.RE

.I outputfile

.RS 3
This is the output file to produce.
.RE

.SH FILES
.B codepage_def.<codepage>
.RS 3
These are the input (ascii) codepage files provided in the Samba
source/ directory.
.RE
.SH FILES
.B codepage.<codepage>
.RS 3
These are the output (binary) codepage files produced and placed in the Samba
destination lib/codepage/ directory.
.RE 

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Not applicable.
.SH INSTALLATION
The location of the server and its support files is a matter for individual
system administrators. The following are thus suggestions only.

It is recommended that the
.B make_smbcodepage
program be installed under the /usr/local/samba hierarchy, in a directory readable
by all, writeable only by root. The program itself should be executable by all.
The program should NOT be setuid or setgid!
.SH VERSION
This man page is (mostly) correct for version 1.9.18 of the Samba suite, plus some
of the recent patches to it. These notes will necessarily lag behind 
development of the software, so it is possible that your version of 
the program has extensions or parameter semantics that differ from or are not 
covered by this man page. Please notify these to the address below for 
rectification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smb.conf (5),
.BR smbd (8)

.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH CREDITS
The
.B make_smbcodepage
program was written by Jeremy Allison (jallison@whistle.com) as part of the 
Internationalization effort of the Samba software.

Please send bug reports to samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au.

See
.BR samba (7)
for a full list of contributors and details on how to 
submit bug reports, comments etc.
