.TH NMBLOOKUP 1 "09 Oct 1998" "nmblookup 2.0.0-alpha11"
.SH NAME
nmblookup \- NBT client used to lookup netbios names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nmblookup
[
.B \-M
] [
.B \-R
] [
.B \-S
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-A
] [
.B \-B
.I broadcast address
] [
.B \-U
.I unicast address
] [
.B \-d
.I debuglevel
]
.B name
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is part of the Samba suite.

.B nmblookup
is used to find out NetBIOS names in a network.
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-d
.I debuglevel

.RS 3
This option sets the debug level. See
.BR smb.conf (5).
.RE

.B \-B
.I broadcast address
.RS 3

Send the query to the broadcast address
.I broadcast address.
The default behavior of nmblookup is to send the query to the broadcast
address of the primary network interface.
.RE

.B \-U
.I unicast address
.RS 3

Do a unicast query to the specified address or host
.I unicast address.
This is needed to query a WINS server.
.RE

.B \-M

.RS 3
Searches for a master browser.
.RE

.B \-R

.RS 3
Do a recursive lookup (needed to direct the query to the WINS portion
of the server rather than the broadcast portion.)

.RE

.B \-S

.RS 3
Lookup node status as well.
.RE

.B \-r

.RS 3
Use root port 137 (Win95 only replies to this.)
.RE

.B \-A

.RS 3
Do a node status on <name> as an IP Address.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

.B nmblookup
can be used to query a WINS server (in the same way
.B nslookup
is used to query DNS servers). To query a WINS server,
.B nmblookup
must be called like this:

.B nmblookup
-U server -R 'query'

For example, running '
.B nmblookup
-U samba.anu.edu.au -R IRIX#1B' would query the WINS server
samba.anu.edu.au for the domain master browser (1B name) for the 
IRIX workgroup.

.SH VERSION

This man page is (mostly) correct for version 1.9.16 of the Samba
suite, plus some of the recent patches to it. These notes will
necessarily lag behind development of the software, so it is possible
that your version of the server has extensions or parameter semantics
that differ from or are not covered by this man page. Please notify
these to the address below for rectification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR samba (8), 
.BR nmbd (8), 
.BR smb.conf (5)
.SH CREDITS
The original Samba software and related utilities were created by 
Andrew Tridgell (samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au). Andrew is also the Keeper
of the Source for this project.

