.TH SAMBA 7 Samba Samba
.SH NAME
Samba \- a LanManager like fileserver for UNIX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Samba
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B Samba
software suite is a collection of programs that implements the SMB
protocol for UNIX systems. This protocol is sometimes also referred to
as the LanManager or Netbios protocol.
.SH COMPONENTS

The Samba suite is made up of several components. Each component is
described in a separate manual page. It is strongly recommended that
you read the documentation that comes with Samba and the manual pages
of those components that you use. If the manual pages aren't clear
enough then please send me a patch!

The
.BR smbd (8)
daemon provides the file and print services to SMB clients,
such as Windows for Workgroups, Windows NT or LanManager. The
configuration file for this daemon is described in
.BR smb.conf (5).

The
.BR nmbd (8)
daemon provides Netbios nameserving and browsing
support. It can also be run interactively to query other name service
daemons.

The
.BR smbclient (1)
program implements a simple ftp-like client. This is
useful for accessing SMB shares on other compatible servers (such as
WfWg), and can also be used to allow a UNIX box to print to a printer
attached to any SMB server (such as a PC running WfWg).

The
.BR testparm (1)
utility allows you to test your
.BR smb.conf (5)
configuration file.

The
.BR smbstatus (1)
utility allows you to tell who is currently using the
.BR smbd (8)
server.
.SH AVAILABILITY

The Samba software suite is licensed under the Gnu Public License. A
copy of that license should have come with the package. You are
encouraged to distribute copies of the Samba suite, but please keep it
intact.

The latest version of the Samba suite can be obtained via anonymous
ftp from samba.anu.edu.au in the directory pub/samba/. It is
also available on several mirror sites worldwide.

You may also find useful information about Samba on the newsgroup
comp.protocols.smb and the Samba mailing list. Details on how to join
the mailing list are given in the README file that comes with Samba.

If you have access to a WWW viewer (such as Netscape or Mosaic) then
you will also find lots of useful information, including back issues
of the Samba mailing list, at http://samba.canberra.edu.au/pub/samba/
.SH AUTHOR

The main author of the Samba suite is Andrew Tridgell. He may be
contacted via e-mail at samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au.

There have also been an enormous number of contributors to Samba from
all over the world. A partial list of these contributors is included
in the CREDITS section below. The list is, however, badly out of
date. More up to date info may be obtained from the change-log that
comes with the Samba source code.
.SH CONTRIBUTIONS

If you wish to contribute to the Samba project, then I suggest you
join the Samba mailing list.

If you have patches to submit or bugs to report then you may mail them
directly to samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au. Note, however, that due to the
enormous popularity of this package I may take some time to repond to
mail. I prefer patches in "diff \-u" format.
.SH CREDITS

Contributors to the project are (in alphabetical order by email address):

(NOTE: This list is very out of date)

 Adams, Graham
 	(gadams@ddrive.demon.co.uk)
 Allison, Jeremy
 	(jeremy@netcom.com)
 Andrus, Ross
 	(ross@augie.insci.com)
 Auer, Karl
 	(Karl.Auer@anu.edu.au)
 Bogstad, Bill
 	(bogstad@cs.jhu.edu)
 Boreham, Bryan
 	(Bryan@alex.com)
 Boreham, David
 	(davidb@ndl.co.uk)
 Butler, Michael
 	(imb@asstdc.scgt.oz.au)
 ???
	(charlie@edina.demon.co.uk)
 Chua, Michael
 	(lpc@solomon.technet.sg)
 Cochran, Marc
	(mcochran@wellfleet.com)
 Dey, Martin N
 	(mnd@netmgrs.co.uk)
 Errath, Maximilian
 	(errath@balu.kfunigraz.ac.at)
 Fisher, Lee
 	(leefi@microsoft.com)
 Foderaro, Sean
 	(jkf@frisky.Franz.COM)
 Greer, Brad
 	(brad@cac.washington.edu)
 Griffith, Michael A
 	(grif@cs.ucr.edu)
 Grosen, Mark
 	(MDGrosen@spectron.COM)
 ????
 	(gunjkoa@dep.sa.gov.au)
 Haapanen, Tom
 	(tomh@metrics.com)
 Hench, Mike
	(hench@cae.uwm.edu)
 Horstman, Mark A
 	(mh2620@sarek.sbc.com)
 Hudson, Tim
 	(tim.hudson@gslmail.mincom.oz.au)
 Hulthen, Erik Magnus
 	(magnus@axiom.se)
 ???
	(imb@asstdc.scgt.oz.au)
 Iversen, Per Steinar
 	(iversen@dsfys1.fi.uib.no)
 Kaara, Pasi
 	(ppk@atk.tpo.fi)
 Karman, Merik
 	(merik@blackadder.dsh.oz.au)
 Kiff, Martin
 	(mgk@newton.npl.co.uk)
 Kiick, Chris
 	(cjkiick@flinx.b11.ingr.com)
 Kukulies, Christoph
 	(kuku@acds.physik.rwth-aachen.de)
 ???
	(lance@fox.com)
 Leighton, Luke
	(lkcl@pires.co.uk)
 Lendecke, Volker
 	(lendecke@namu01.gwdg.de)
 ???
 	(lonnie@itg.ti.com)
 Mahoney, Paul Thomas
 	(ptm@xact1.xact.com)
 Mauelshagen, Heinz
 	(mauelsha@ez.da.telekom.de)
 Merrick, Barry G
 	(bgm@atml.co.uk)
 Mol, Marcel
 	(marcel@fanout.et.tudeflt.nl)
 ???
	(njw@cpsg.com.au)
 ???
	(noses@oink.rhein.de)
 Owens, John
 	(john@micros.com)
 Pierson, Jacques
 	(pierson@ketje.enet.dec.com)
 Powell, Mark
 	(mark@scot1.ucsalf.ac.uk)
 Reiz, Steven
 	(sreiz@aie.nl)
 Schlaeger, Joerg
 	(joergs@toppoint.de)
 S{rkel{, Vesa
 	(vesku@rankki.kcl.fi)
 Terpstra, John
	(jht@aquasoft.com.au)
 Tridgell, Andrew
 	(samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au)
 Troyer, Dean
 	(troyer@saifr00.ateng.az.honeywell.com)
 Wakelin, Ross
 	(rossw@march.co.uk)
 Wessels, Stefan
 	(SWESSELS@dos-lan.cs.up.ac.za)
 Young, Ian A
 	(iay@threel.co.uk)
 van der Zwan, Paul
 	(paulzn@olivetti.nl)

