.TH SMBD 8 smbd smbd
.SH NAME
smbd \- provide SMB (aka LanManager) services to clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smbd
[
.B \-D
] [
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
.I debuglevel
] [
.B \-l
.I log file
] [
.B \-p
.I port number
] [
.B \-O
.I socket options
] [
.B \-s
.I configuration file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is part of the Samba suite.

.B smbd
is a server that can provide most SMB services. The 
server provides filespace and printer services to clients using the SMB 
protocol. This is compatible with the LanManager protocol, and can
service LanManager clients.

An extensive description of the services that the server can provide is given
in the man page for the configuration file controlling the attributes of those
services (see
.BR smb.conf (5)).
This man page will not describe the services, but
will concentrate on the administrative aspects of running the server.

Please note that there are significant security implications to running this
server, and
.BR smb.conf (5)
should be regarded as mandatory reading before proceeding with 
installation.

A session is created whenever a client requests one. Each client gets a copy
of the server for each session. This copy then services all connections made
by the client during that session. When all connections from its client are
are closed, the copy of the server for that client terminates.

The configuration file is automatically reloaded if it changes. You
can force a reload by sending a SIGHUP to the server.
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-D

.RS 3
If specified, this parameter causes the server to operate as a daemon. That is,
it detaches itself and runs in the background, fielding requests on the 
appropriate port.

By default, the server will NOT operate as a daemon.
.RE

.B \-a

.RS 3
If this parameter is specified, the log files will be overwritten with each 
new connection. By default, the log files will be appended to.
.RE

.B \-d
.I debuglevel
.RS 3

debuglevel is an integer from 0 to 5.

The default value if this parameter is not specified is zero.

The higher this value, the more detail will be logged to the log files about
the activities of the server. At level 0, only critical errors and serious 
warnings will be logged. Level 1 is a reasonable level for day to day running
- it generates a small amount of information about operations carried out.

Levels above 1 will generate considerable amounts of log data, and should 
only be used when investigating a problem. Levels above 3 are designed for 
use only by developers and generate HUGE amounts of log data, most of which 
is extremely cryptic.
.RE

.B \-l
.I log file

.RS 3
If specified,
.I logfile
specifies a base filename into which operational data from the running server
will be logged.

The default base name is specified at compile time.

The base name is used to generate actual log file names. For example, if the
name specified was "log", the following files would be used for log data:

.RS 3
log.debug (containing debugging information)

log.in (containing inbound transaction data)

log.out (containing outbound transaction data)
.RE

The log files generated are never removed by the server.
.RE

.B \-O
.I socket options
.RS 3

See the socket options section of
.BR smb.conf (5)
for details

.RE
.B \-p
.I port number
.RS 3

port number is a positive integer value.

The default value if this parameter is not specified is 139.

This number is the port number that will be used when making connections to
the server from client software. The standard (well-known) port number for the
server is 139, hence the default. If you wish to run the server as an ordinary
user rather than as root, most systems will require you to use a port number
greater than 1024 - ask your system administrator for help if you are in this
situation.

This parameter is not normally specified except in the above situation.
.RE

.B \-s
.I configuration file

.RS 3
The default configuration file name is determined at compile time.

The file specified contains the configuration details required by the server.
The information in this file includes server-specific information such as
what printcap file to use, as well as descriptions of all the services that the
server is to provide. See
.BR smb.conf (5)
for more information.
.RE
.SH FILES

.B /etc/inetd.conf

.RS 3
If the server is to be run by the inetd meta-daemon, this file must contain
suitable startup information for the meta-daemon. See the section 
"INSTALLATION" below.
.RE

.B /etc/rc

.RS 3
(or whatever initialisation script your system uses)

If running the server as a daemon at startup, this file will need to contain
an appropriate startup sequence for the server. See the section "INSTALLATION"
below.
.RE

.B /etc/services

.RS 3
If running the server via the meta-daemon inetd, this file must contain a
mapping of service name (eg., netbios-ssn)  to service port (eg., 139) and
protocol type (eg., tcp). See the section "INSTALLATION" below.
.RE

.B /usr/local/samba/lib/smb.conf

.RS 3
This file describes all the services the server is to make available to
clients. See
.BR smb.conf (5)
for more information.
.RE
.RE
.SH LIMITATIONS

On some systems
.B smbd
cannot change uid back to root after a setuid() call.
Such systems are called "trapdoor" uid systems. If you have such a system,
you will be unable to connect from a client (such as a PC) as two different
users at once. Attempts to connect the second user will result in "access
denied" or similar.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.B PRINTER

.RS 3
If no printer name is specified to printable services, most systems will
use the value of this variable (or "lp" if this variable is not defined)
as the name of the printer to use. This is not specific to the server,
however.
.RE
.SH INSTALLATION
The location of the server and its support files is a matter for individual
system administrators. The following are thus suggestions only.

It is recommended that the server software be installed under the
/usr/local/samba hierarchy, in a directory readable by all, writeable only
by root. The server program itself should be executable by all, as
users may wish to run the server themselves (in which case it will of
course run with their privileges).  The server should NOT be
setuid. On some systems it may be worthwhile to make smbd setgid to an
empty group. This is because some systems may have a security hole where
daemon processes that become a user can be attached to with a
debugger. Making the smbd file setgid to an empty group may prevent
this hole from being exploited. This secrity hole and the suggested
fix has only been confirmed on Linux at the time this was written. It
is possible that this hole only exists in Linux, as testing on other
systems has thus far shown them to be immune.

The server log files should be put in a directory readable and writable only
by root, as the log files may contain sensitive information.

The configuration file should be placed in a directory readable and writable
only by root, as the configuration file controls security for the services
offered by the server. The configuration file can be made readable by all if
desired, but this is not necessary for correct operation of the server and
is not recommended. A sample configuration file "smb.conf.sample" is supplied
with the source to the server - this may be renamed to "smb.conf" and 
modified to suit your needs.

The remaining notes will assume the following:

.RS 3
.B smbd
(the server program) installed in /usr/local/samba/bin

smb.conf (the configuration file) installed in /usr/local/samba/lib

log files stored in /var/adm/smblogs
.RE

The server may be run either as a daemon by users or at startup, or it may
be run from a meta-daemon such as inetd upon request. If run as a daemon, the
server will always be ready, so starting sessions will be faster. If run from 
a meta-daemon some memory will be saved and utilities such as the tcpd 
TCP-wrapper may be used for extra security.

When you've decided, continue with either "RUNNING THE SERVER AS A DAEMON" or
"RUNNING THE SERVER ON REQUEST".
.SH RUNNING THE SERVER AS A DAEMON
To run the server as a daemon from the command line, simply put the
.B \-D
option
on the command line. There is no need to place an ampersand at the end of the
command line - the
.B \-D
option causes the server to detach itself from the
tty anyway.

Any user can run the server as a daemon (execute permissions permitting, of 
course). This is useful for testing purposes, and may even be useful as a
temporary substitute for something like ftp. When run this way, however, the
server will only have the privileges of the user who ran it.

To ensure that the server is run as a daemon whenever the machine is started,
and to ensure that it runs as root so that it can serve multiple clients, you 
will need to modify the system startup files. Wherever appropriate (for
example, in /etc/rc), insert the following line, substituting 
port number, log file location, configuration file location and debug level as
desired:

.RS 3
/usr/local/samba/bin/smbd -D -l /var/adm/smblogs/log -s /usr/local/samba/lib/smb.conf
.RE

(The above should appear in your initialisation script as a single line. 
Depending on your terminal characteristics, it may not appear that way in
this man page. If the above appears as more than one line, please treat any 
newlines or indentation as a single space or TAB character.)

If the options used at compile time are appropriate for your system, all
parameters except the desired debug level and
.B \-D
may be omitted. See the
section "OPTIONS" above.
.SH RUNNING THE SERVER ON REQUEST
If your system uses a meta-daemon such as inetd, you can arrange to have the
smbd server started whenever a process attempts to connect to it. This requires
several changes to the startup files on the host machine. If you are
experimenting as an ordinary user rather than as root, you will need the 
assistance of your system administrator to modify the system files.

You will probably want to set up the name server
.B nmbd
at the same time as
.B smbd
- refer to the man page 
.BR nmbd (8).

First, ensure that a port is configured in the file /etc/services. The 
well-known port 139 should be used if possible, though any port may be used.

Ensure that a line similar to the following is in /etc/services:

.RS 3
netbios-ssn	139/tcp
.RE

Note for NIS/YP users - you may need to rebuild the NIS service maps rather
than alter your local /etc/services file.

Next, put a suitable line in the file /etc/inetd.conf (in the unlikely event
that you are using a meta-daemon other than inetd, you are on your own). Note
that the first item in this line matches the service name in /etc/services.
Substitute appropriate values for your system in this line (see
.BR inetd (8)):

.RS 3
.\" turn off right adjustment
.ad l
netbios-ssn stream tcp nowait root /usr/local/samba/bin/smbd -d1 
-l/var/adm/smblogs/log -s/usr/local/samba/lib/smb.conf
.ad
.RE

(The above should appear in /etc/inetd.conf as a single line. Depending on 
your terminal characteristics, it may not appear that way in this man page.
If the above appears as more than one line, please treat any newlines or 
indentation as a single space or TAB character.)

Note that there is no need to specify a port number here, even if you are 
using a non-standard port number.

Lastly, edit the configuration file to provide suitable services. To start
with, the following two services should be all you need:

.RS 3
[homes]
.RS 3
 writable = yes
.RE

[printers]
.RS 3
 writable = no
 printable = yes
 path = /tmp
 public = yes
.RE
.RE

This will allow you to connect to your home directory and print to any printer
supported by the host (user privileges permitting).
.SH TESTING THE INSTALLATION
If running the server as a daemon, execute it before proceeding. If
using a meta-daemon, either restart the system or kill and restart the 
meta-daemon. Some versions of inetd will reread their configuration tables if
they receive a HUP signal.

If your machine's name is "fred" and your name is "mary", you should now be
able to connect to the service "\\\\fred\\mary".

To properly test and experiment with the server, we recommend using the
smbclient program (see
.BR smbclient (1)).
.SH VERSION
This man page is (mostly) correct for version 1.9.00 of the Samba suite, plus some
of the recent patches to it. These notes will necessarily lag behind 
development of the software, so it is possible that your version of 
the server has extensions or parameter semantics that differ from or are not 
covered by this man page. Please notify these to the address below for 
rectification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hosts_access (5),
.BR inetd (8),
.BR nmbd (8), 
.BR smb.conf (5),
.BR smbclient (1),
.BR testparm (1), 
.BR testprns (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
[This section under construction]

Most diagnostics issued by the server are logged in a specified log file. The
log file name is specified at compile time, but may be overridden on the
command line.

The number and nature of diagnostics available depends on the debug level used
by the server. If you have problems, set the debug level to 3 and peruse the
log files.

Most messages are reasonably self-explanatory. Unfortunately, at time of
creation of this man page the source code is still too fluid to warrant
describing each and every diagnostic. At this stage your best bet is still
to grep the source code and inspect the conditions that gave rise to the 
diagnostics you are seeing.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH CREDITS
The original Samba software and related utilities were created by 
Andrew Tridgell (samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au). Andrew is also the Keeper
of the Source for this project.

This man page was written by Karl Auer (Karl.Auer@anu.edu.au).

See
.BR smb.conf (5)
for a full list of contributors and details on how to 
submit bug reports, comments etc.
