.TH SMBMNT 8 "21 Mar 2000" "smbmnt TNG-prealpha"
.SH NAME
smbmnt \- mount smb file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smbmnt
.B mount-point
[
.B -u
.I uid
] [
.B -g
.I gid
] [
.B -f
.I file mode
] [
.B -d
.I dir mode
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smbmnt 
is a helper application used by the 
.BI smbmount (8)
program to do the actual mounting.
.B smbmnt
is meant to be installed setuid root so that normal users can mount
their smb shares. It checks whether the user has write permissions
on the mount point and then mounts the directory.

The
.B smbmnt
program is normally invoked by a mount command to
.BI smbmount ,
and the command line arguments are passed directly to
.B smbmnt.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -u
.I uid,
.B -g
.I gid
.RS 3
A Lan Manager server does not tell us anything about the owner of a
file, but Unix requires that each file have an owner and a group it belongs
to. With 
.B -u
and
.B -g
you can tell smbmount which id's it should assign to the files in the
mounted directory.

The defaults for these values are the current uid and gid.
.RE

.B -f
.I file mode,
.B -d
.I dir mode
.RS 3
Like 
.B -u
and
.B -g,
these options are also used to bridge differences in concepts between
Lan Manager and Unix. Lan Manager does not know anything about file
permissions, so
.B smbmnt
must be told which permissions it should assign to the mounted files
and directories.

The values must be given as octal numbers. The default values are taken
from the current umask, where the file mode is the current umask,
and the dir mode adds execute permissions where the file mode gives
read permissions.

Note that these permissions can differ from the rights the server
gives to us. If you do not have write permissions on the server,
you should choose a file mode that matches your actual permissions.
This certainly cannot override the restrictions imposed by the server.

In addition to specifying the file mode, the
.B -f
argument can be used to specify certain bug-fix workarounds.
This allows bug fixes to be enabled on a per mount-point basis,
rather than being compiled into the kernel.
The required bug fixes are specified by prepending an (octal) value
to the file mode.
For information on the available bug workarounds, refer to the
.B smbfs.txt
file in the Linux kernel Documentation directory. 
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.B smbmount(8)

