.TH SMBPASSWD 8 "13 Jun 1998" "smbpasswd 1.9.18p8"
.SH NAME
smbpasswd \- change a users smb password in the smbpasswd file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smbpasswd
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-r
remote_machine
] [
.B \-D
DEBUGLEVEL
] [
.B username
]
.SH DESCRIPTION

This program is part of the Samba suite.

.B smbpasswd 
allows a user to change their encrypted smb password which
is stored in the smbpasswd file (usually kept in the
.I private
directory under the
.I Samba 
directory hierarchy. Ordinary users can only run the command 
with no options. It will prompt them for their old smb password
and then ask them for their new password twice, to ensure that
the new password was typed correctly. No passwords will
be echoed on the screen whilst being typed. If you have a blank
smb password (specified by the string "NO PASSWORD" in the
smbpasswd file) then just press the <Enter> key when asked
for your old password.

.B New for 1.9.18p4.
smbpasswd will now allow a user to change their password
on a Windows NT server. To use this add the 
.I \-r
.I \<remote_machine\>
paramter to the smbpasswd command. The machine name is looked
up using the "name resolve order" parameter defined in the
smb.conf [global] section. Note that when changing a Windows
NT password for a domain user,
.I \<remote machine\>
must be the name of the Primary domain controller.

To allow users to change their passwords from "NO PASSWORD"
in the smbpasswd file to a valid password the administrator
must set the following parameter in the [global] section of
the smb.conf :

null passwords = true

This is 
.B NOT
recommended as a general policy, it is recommended that
new users be assigned a default password instead.

The 
.I \-a
and 
.I username
options can only be used by a user running as root.

.SH OPTIONS
.I \-a

.RS 3
Specifies that the username following should be added to
the
.I smbpasswd
file, with the new password typed (type <Enter> for the
old password). This option is ignored if the username 
following already exists in the
.I smbpasswd
file and it is treated like a regular change password 
command. Note that the user to be added
.B must
already exist in the system password file (usually /etc/passwd)
else the request to add the user will fail.

.RE
.I username

.RS 3
You may only specify a username to the smbpasswd command
if you are running as root. Only root should have the
permission to modify other users smb passwords.

.RE
.RE
.SH INSTALLATION

The location of the server and its support files is a matter for individual
system administrators. The following are thus suggestions only.

It is recommended that the
.B smbpasswd
program be installed in the /usr/local/samba/bin directory. This should be
a directory readable by all, writeable only by root. The program should be
executable by all. The program 
.B must not 
be setuid root.

.SH VERSION

This man page is correct for version 1.9.18p4 of the Samba suite.
These notes will necessarily lag behind 
development of the software, so it is possible that your version of 
the program has extensions or parameter semantics that differ from or are not 
covered by this man page. Please notify these to the address below for 
rectification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smbd (8), 
.BR smb.conf (5) 
.SH
.B BUGS

.RE
The
.B smbpasswd
command is only useful if
.I Samba
has been set up to use encrypted passwords. See the file
.I ENCRYPTION.txt
in the docs directory for details on how to do this.

.SH CREDITS
.RE
The original Samba software and related utilities were created by 
Andrew Tridgell (samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au). Andrew is also the Keeper
of the Source for this project. smbpasswd and the encrypted password
file code was written by Jeremy Allison (samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au).

This man page was written by Jeremy Allison. Bug reports to samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au.

See
.BR smb.conf (5)
for a full list of contributors and details of how to 
submit bug reports, comments etc.
