.TH SMBRUN 1 smbrun smbrun
.SH NAME
smbrun \- interface program between smbd and external programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smbrun
.I shell-command
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is part of the Samba suite.

.B smbrun
is a very small 'glue' program, which runs shell commands for
the
.B smbd
daemon (see
.BR smbd (8)).

It first changes to the highest effective user and group ID that it can, 
then runs the command line provided using the system() call. This program is
necessary to allow some operating systems to run external programs as non-root.
.SH OPTIONS
.I shell-command

.RS 3
The shell command to execute.

The command should have a fully-qualified path.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The PATH variable set for the environment in which
.B smbrun
is executed will affect what executables are located and executed if a
fully-qualified path is not given in the command.
.SH INSTALLATION
The location of the server and its support files is a matter for individual
system administrators. The following are thus suggestions only.

It is recommended that the
.B smbrun
program be installed under the /usr/local/samba hierarchy, in a directory readable
by all, writeable only by root. The program should be executable by all.
The program should NOT be setuid or setgid!
.SH VERSION
This man page is (mostly) correct for version 1.9.00 of the Samba suite, plus some
of the recent patches to it. These notes will necessarily lag behind 
development of the software, so it is possible that your version of 
the program has extensions or parameter semantics that differ from or are not 
covered by this man page. Please notify these to the address below for 
rectification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smbd (8), 
.BR smb.conf (8) 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If
.B smbrun
cannot be located or cannot be executed by
.B smbd
then appropriate messages will be found in the
.B smbd
logs. Other diagnostics are
dependent on the shell-command being run. It is advisable for your shell
commands to issue suitable diagnostics to aid trouble-shooting.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH CREDITS
The original Samba software and related utilities were created by 
Andrew Tridgell (samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au). Andrew is also the Keeper
of the Source for this project.

This man page was written by Karl Auer (Karl.Auer@anu.edu.au).

See
.BR smb.conf (5)
for a full list of contributors and details of how to 
submit bug reports, comments etc.
