.TH SMBSTATUS 1 smbstatus smbstatus
.SH NAME
smbstatus \- report on current Samba connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smbstatus
[
.B \-d
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-s
.I configuration file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is part of the Samba suite.

.B smbstatus
is a very simple program to list the current Samba connections.

Just run the program and the output is self explanatory.
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-d
gives verbose output.

.B \-p
print a list of
.B smbd
processes and exit. Useful for scripting.

.B \-s
.I configuration file

.RS 3
The default configuration file name is determined at compile time.

The file specified contains the configuration details required by the server.
See
.BR smb.conf (5)
for more information.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Not applicable.
.SH INSTALLATION
The location of the server and its support files is a matter for individual
system administrators. The following are thus suggestions only.

It is recommended that the
.B smbstatus
program be installed under the /usr/local/samba hierarchy, in a directory readable
by all, writeable only by root. The program itself should be executable by all.
.SH VERSION
This man page is (mostly) correct for version 1.9.00 of the Samba suite, plus some
of the recent patches to it. These notes will necessarily lag behind 
development of the software, so it is possible that your version of 
the program has extensions or parameter semantics that differ from or are not 
covered by this man page. Please notify these to the address below for 
rectification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smb.conf (5),
.BR smbd (8)

See
.BR smb.conf (5)
for a full list of contributors and details on how to 
submit bug reports, comments etc.
