.TH SMBTAR 1 smbtar smbtar
.SH NAME
smbtar \- shell script for backing up SMB shares directly to UNIX tape drive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smbtar
.B \-s
.I server
[
.B \-p
.I password
] [
.B \-x
.I service
] [
.B \-X
] [
.B \-d
.I directory
] [
.B \-u
.I user
] [
.B \-t
.I tape
] [
.B \-b
.I blocksize
] [
.B \-N
.I filename
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-l
.I log level
] [
.B \-v
]
.I filenames...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is an extension to the Samba suite.

.B smbtar
is a very small shell script on top of
.BR smbclient ,
which dumps SMB shares directly to tape.
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-s
.I server
.RS 3
The PC that the share resides upon.
.RE

.B \-x
.I service
.RS 3
The share name on the PC to connect to. Default:
.I backup.
.RE

.B \-X
.RS 3
Exclude mode. Exclude
.I filenames...
from tar create or restore.
.RE

.B \-d
.I directory
.RS 3
Change to initial
.I directory
before restoring / backing up files.
.RE

.B \-v
.RS 3
Verbose mode.
.RE

.B \-p
.I password

.RS 3
The password to use to access a share. Default: none
.RE

.B \-u
.I user
.RS 3
The user id to connect as. Default: UNIX login name.
.RE

.B \-t
.I tape
.RS 3
Tape device. May be regular file or tape device. Default: Tape environmental
variable; if not set, a file called
.IR tar.out .
.RE

.B \-b
.I blocksize
.RS 3
Blocking factor. Defaults to 20. See
.BR tar (1)
for a fuller explanation.
.RE

.B \-N
.I filename
.RS 3
Backup only files newer than filename. Could be used (for example) on a log
file to implement incremental backups.
.RE

.B \-i
.RS 3
Incremental mode; tar files are only backed up if they have the
archive bit set. The archive bit is reset after each file is read.
.RE

.B \-r
.RS 3
Restore. Files are restored to the share from the tar file.
.RE

.B \-l
.I log level
.RS 3
Log (debug) level. Corresponds to
.B \-d
flag of
.BR smbclient (1).
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The TAPE variable specifies the default tape device to write to. May
be overidden with the
.B \-t
option.
.SH BUGS
The
.B smbtar
script has different options from ordinary tar and tar
called from
.BR smbclient .
.SH CAVEATS
Sites that are more careful about security may not like the way
the script handles PC passwords. Backup and restore work on entire shares,
should work on file lists.
.SH VERSION
This man page is correct for version 1.9.15p8 of the Samba suite.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smbclient (8), 
.BR smb.conf (8) 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
See diagnostics for 
.B smbclient
command.
.SH CREDITS
The original Samba software and related utilities were created by 
Andrew Tridgell (samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au). Andrew is also the Keeper
of the Source for this project.

Ricky Poulten (poultenr@logica.co.uk) wrote the tar extension and this
man page. The
.B smbtar
script was heavily rewritten and improved by
Martin Kraemer <Martin.Kraemer@mch.sni.de>. Many thanks to everyone
who suggested extensions, improvements, bug fixes, etc.

See
.BR smb.conf (5)
for a full list of contributors and details of how to submit bug reports,
comments etc.

