.TH TESTPARM 1 testparm testparm
.SH NAME
testparm \- check an smbd configuration file for internal correctness
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B testparm
[
.I configfilename
[
.I hostname
.I hostIP
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is part of the Samba suite.

.B testparm
is a very simple test program to check an
.B smbd
configuration
file for internal correctness. If this program reports no problems, you can use
the configuration file with confidence that
.B smbd
will successfully
load the configuration file.

Note that this is NOT a guarantee that the services specified in the
configuration file will be available or will operate as expected.

If the optional host name and host IP address are specified on the
command line, this test program will run through the service entries
reporting whether the specified host has access to each service.
.SH OPTIONS
.I configfilename

.RS 3
This is the name of the configuration file to check.
.RE

.I hostname

.RS 3
This is the name of the host to check access on.

If this parameter is supplied, the
.I hostIP
parameter must also be supplied, or strange things may happen.
.RE

.I hostIP

.RS 3
This is the IP number of the host specified in the previous parameter.

This number must be supplied if the
.I hostname
parameter is supplied, or strange things may happen.
.RE
.SH FILES
.B smb.conf
.RS 3
This is usually the name of the configuration file used by
.BR smbd .
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Not applicable.
.SH INSTALLATION
The location of the server and its support files is a matter for individual
system administrators. The following are thus suggestions only.

It is recommended that the
.B testparm
program be installed under the /usr/local/samba hierarchy, in a directory readable
by all, writeable only by root. The program itself should be executable by all.
The program should NOT be setuid or setgid!
.SH VERSION
This man page is (mostly) correct for version 1.9.00 of the Samba suite, plus some
of the recent patches to it. These notes will necessarily lag behind 
development of the software, so it is possible that your version of 
the program has extensions or parameter semantics that differ from or are not 
covered by this man page. Please notify these to the address below for 
rectification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smb.conf (5),
.BR smbd (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The program will issue a message saying whether the configuration file loaded
OK or not. This message may be preceded by errors and warnings if the file
did not load. If the file was loaded OK, the program then dumps all known
service details to stdout.

If a host name is specified but no host IP number, all bets are off.

Other messages are self-explanatory.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH CREDITS
The original Samba software and related utilities were created by 
Andrew Tridgell (samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au). Andrew is also the Keeper
of the Source for this project.

The
.B testparm
program and this man page were written by Karl Auer
(Karl.Auer@anu.edu.au).

See
.BR samba (7)
for a full list of contributors and details on how to 
submit bug reports, comments etc.
