.TH TESTPRNS 1 testprns testprns
.SH NAME
testprns \- check printer name for validity with smbd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B testprns
.I printername
[
.I printcapname
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is part of the Samba suite.

.B testprns
is a very simple test program to determine whether a given 
printer name is valid for use in a service to be provided by
.B smbd.

"Valid" in this context means "can be found in the printcap specified". This
program is very stupid - so stupid in fact that it would be wisest to always
specify the printcap file to use.
.SH OPTIONS
.I printername

.RS 3
The printer name to validate.

Printer names are taken from the first field in each record in the printcap
file, single printer names and sets of aliases separated by vertical bars
("|") are recognised. Note that no validation or checking of the printcap
syntax is done beyond that required to extract the printer name. It may
be that the print spooling system is more forgiving or less forgiving
than 
.BR testprns .
However, if
.B testprns
finds the printer then
.B smbd
should do so as well.
.RE

.I printcapname

.RS 3
This is the name of the printcap file to search for the given printer name
in.

If no printcap name is specified,
.B testprns
will attempt to scan the printcap file specified at compile time 
(PRINTCAP_NAME).
.RE
.SH FILES
.B /etc/printcap
.RS 3
This is usually the default printcap file to scan. See
.BR printcap (5)).
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Not applicable.
.SH INSTALLATION
The location of the server and its support files is a matter for individual
system administrators. The following are thus suggestions only.

It is recommended that the
.B testprns
program be installed under the /usr/local/samba hierarchy, in a directory readable
by all, writeable only by root. The program should be executable by all.
The program should NOT be setuid or setgid!
.SH VERSION
This man page is (mostly) correct for version 1.9.00 of the Samba suite, plus some
of the recent patches to it. These notes will necessarily lag behind 
development of the software, so it is possible that your version of 
the program has extensions or parameter semantics that differ from or are not 
covered by this man page. Please notify these to the address below for 
rectification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR printcap (5),
.BR smbd (8), 
.BR smbclient (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If a printer is found to be valid, the message "Printer name <printername> is 
valid" will be displayed.

If a printer is found to be invalid, the message "Printer name <printername> 
is not valid" will be displayed.

All messages that would normally be logged during operation of
.B smbd
are
logged by this program to the file
.I test.log
in the current directory. The program runs at debuglevel 3, so quite extensive
logging information is written. The log should be checked carefully for errors
and warnings.

Other messages are self-explanatory.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH CREDITS
The original Samba software and related utilities were created by 
Andrew Tridgell (samba-bugs@samba.anu.edu.au). Andrew is also the Keeper
of the Source for this project.

The
.B testprns
program and this man page were written by Karl Auer
(Karl.Auer@anu.edu.au).

See
.BR samba (7)
for a full list of contributors and details of how to 
submit bug reports, comments etc.
